=== Attributes  ===

.Basic attributes
As a circuit designer, I want my schematic editor and netlister to support
parametrized designs. I want to use it for:
1. Building reusable components. For example, I may design a generic
   op-amp which can be later reused in vastly different designs provided
   that the user changes some of the attributes describing device sizes.
2. Similarly, I may design a digital circuit processing a data word of
   an arbitrary length.
3. Optimizing the design. For example, I may have an opamp which now I'd like
   to optimize for a given application but rather than going through "modify
   the schematic, netlist, simulate" loop I'd prefer to use a simulation
   harness that does the same without modifying the schematic (just changing
   an attribute value).
4. Many model libraries require the user to set some parameters.
   In order to use these libraries my tool must be capable of doing so.
5. Ideally (although this must be fairly challenging in a general case),
   I would like to parametrize not only quantities or dimensions but also
   structure of design cells. Some tools provide means for designing
   a schematic or layout so that it changes according to user set parameters
   (visibility of power pins on a symbol, is the transistor layout surrounded
   by a well tap or not, etc.)

.Attribute expressions
As a circuit designer, I want to be able to set values of predefined
parameters not only to constants or global variables but also results
of some computations.

Simple example (this mechanism could use hardcoded logic rather than relying
on expressions), instead of setting widths of both transistors forming
the op-amp's differential pair to be equal to a global variable "diffpair_w",
I would prefer to set them to be equal to a parameter "diffpair_w"
(for example using a function: (parentAttribute "diffpair_w")) defined by
the opamp. This has two benefits:
* The user sets the attribute only once (rather than twice as if he was
  assigning a constant value to each of the transistor attributes).
* The attribute value is stored with the instance of the opamp, rather than
  in a global variable somewhere at the top level of the design.

In a more complex scenario, I'd like to write more advanced expressions.
For example, if I know a relation between the resistor size and its
resistance, I may choose to describe its geometry indirectly by specifying
a desired resistance value to a schematic wrapping a resistor model.
The schematic may then take this value and plug it into formula converting
it into a specific model parameter value.

In this example, given three attributes defined at the wrapper schematic
level:

 R - target resistance
 rho_sq = 100 - sheet resistivity
 w = 1e-6 - width of a resistor

then, inside the wrapper, resistor parameters could be defined as follows:

 rho_sq: (parentAttribute "rho_sq")
 w:      (parentAttribute "w")
 l:      (* (parentAttribute "R) (/ (instanceAttribute "w") (instanceAttribute "rho_sq")))

NOTE: The above syntax is used only for presenting the expected behavior,
      it is not a proposal for an actual implementation.
      
Some netlisting backends may have some support for expression evaluation
themselves. As a user simulating the design using Spice, I would prefer to
propagate such expressions down to the backend rather than evaluating them
at the netlist time.

As such conversion may be very difficult in a general case, I'd like to
have some string operations at my disposal that enable me to rewrite the above
expression in an alternate form:

 l:      (strJoin (toStr (parentAttribute "R")) " * " (toStr (instanceAttribute "w"))
             " / " (toStr (parentAttribute "rho_sq")))

As a user that uses multiple simulators and netlisters, I want to be able
to either:
* design multiple schematics of such resistor wrapper and have a capability
  to switch between them, or
* define multiple parameter definitions and have a capability to switch between
  them.
             
As a user who just downloaded the EDA tool and is searching the web for sample
designs, I want to be able to test these examples knowing they will not
comprimise the security of my computer. I want the expression language to be
limited in capabilities (at least by default) and that the expression
evaluation takes place in a safe environment (in isolation from the rest
of the program or system).

.Attribute metadata
Attributes are used in some specific context. The tool may have to treat them
differently if in the application they are supposed to be text strings,
integers or a floating point numbers.

For example, I may describe a bus width as a (/ (parentAttribute "some_attr") 2).
If for any reason "some_attr" is an odd number (or a floating point number)
and the division operator doesn't round the result to a nearest integer, the bus
width may be assigned a floating point value. This is likely to trigger an error
further down the design process, likely much later or when the library is used
in the field.
   
Similarly, attributes may specify some physical quantities (for example length),
for which there are multiple units in use.

As a user of an EDA tool, I may prefer to specify (or simply view) some attribute
values in meters, micrometers, inches, mils etc. This is not only a pure
convenience feature, using "wrong" units may lead to some rounding errors in
the design.
   
// Local Variables:
// mode: adoc
// End:
