=== Schematic quality ===

As part of my work I must document the designs I produce. This often
involves creating technical documentation intended to be placed in the
hands of the end-user of my products, and it must be of the highest
quality.

Problems I've had with other tools in the past:

. When I copy images from my EDA tools into my documentation,
  the image is blocky and poor resolution.
. If I output images big enough for the user to zoom into without seeing
  pixels, the file size becomes huge.
. The background colours of the tools often don't match the page in the
  documentation:
  .. This is visually inconsistent for online documentation.
  .. Can lead to higher printing costs for printed documentation.
  .. Can lead to lower readability when reproduced in black and white.

When I am exporting schematic images for use in documentation, it would be
fantastic if the file sizes were small, and the images could scale to whatever
zoom level the user wants. I often use Inkscape for vector graphics, but
unfortunately this doesn't always work well for pasting into some types of
document.

I typically like to produce PDF files to distribute, but for ease of
collaboration, I often use office productivity suites such as Libre Office
for writing quick documentation when I don't have the energy to fire up LaTeX.

What I would consider to be the mark of a quality schematic:

. Consistent, and carefully applied stroke widths in imagery.
. No overhanging stroke / line cap ends overlapping when geometry changes.
  This is often present on "ugly" schematics when joining features drawn
  with different line widths.
. Filled objects, such as LEDs or transistor arrows should be properly
  filled with attention paid to their shape and proportion.
. Text must be rendered legibly.
. Text should be selectable for copying in any final PDF documentation.

Whilst I sometimes want to print or embed an completly faithful copy of the
schematic as I see it when designing, when targeting end-users, I wish to
turn off or remove design-rule checking overlays, such as markers for
unconnected pin and net ends, as I don't like showing this level of detail
to my customers.


// Local Variables:
// mode: adoc
// End:
